docs/UI_TESTING.md, before:

# UI Testing Guide

This repo uses Playwright for end-to-end UI testing of the portfolio site.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm i

# Install Playwright browsers
npx playwright install --with-deps

# Run all UI tests
npm test

# Run with UI mode (interactive)
npm run test:ui

# Run in headed mode (see browser)
npm run test:headed
```

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.x (LTS recommended)
- npm (comes with Node.js)
- Port `4321` available locally (for test server)

Verify Node.js version:
```bash
node -v  # should show v18.x.x
npm -v
```

## Running Tests

### Basic Commands

```bash
# Run all tests headless (default)
npm test

# Run with Playwright UI (interactive test runner)
npm run test:ui

# Run in headed mode (see browser windows)
npm run test:headed

# Debug mode (step through tests)
npm run test:debug

# Run only E2E tests (excludes API tests)
npm run test:e2e
```

### Running Specific Test Files

```bash
# Run a specific test file
npx playwright test tests/navbar.spec.ts

# Run tests matching a pattern
npx playwright test navbar

# Run tests in a specific browser
npx playwright test --project=chromium
npx playwright test --project=firefox
npx playwright test --project=chromium-iphone
```

### Running Tests in CI

Tests run automatically in GitHub Actions on:
- Pull requests
- Pushes to main
- Daily schedule (6:00 UTC)

The CI workflow:
1. Checks out code
2. Sets up Node.js 18
3. Installs dependencies
4. Installs Playwright browsers
5. Runs all tests
6. Uploads test artifacts (reports, traces, screenshots)

## Test Structure

Tests are located in the `tests/` directory:

- `navbar.spec.ts` - Navigation bar functionality
- `home-page.spec.ts` - Home page content and layout
- `home.spec.ts` - Home page navigation and interactions
- `skills.spec.ts` - Skills page display and categorization
- `projects.spec.ts` - Projects page and project cards
- `docs.spec.ts` - Documentation/Notes page navigation
- `tutorials.spec.ts` - Tutorials page and cards
- `translation.spec.ts` - Language switching (EN/ES)
- `theme.spec.ts` - Dark/light theme switching
- `responsive.spec.ts` - Responsive design across screen sizes
- `spa-navigation.spec.ts` - Single Page Application navigation

## Test Configuration

Configuration is in `playwright.config.ts`:

- **Base URL**: `http://localhost:4321`
- **Test timeout**: 60 seconds
- **Expect timeout**: 10 seconds
- **Web server**: Automatically starts `http-server` on port 4321
- **Browsers**: Chromium, Firefox, Chromium-iPhone (mobile emulation)
- **Trace**: Enabled on first retry for debugging

## Test Suites

### Navbar Tests (`navbar.spec.ts`)

Tests navigation bar functionality:
- Navbar visibility and expected links
- Docs dropdown menu behavior
- Mobile sidebar functionality
- Brand name navigation
- Language switcher and theme toggle

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/navbar.spec.ts
```

### Home Page Tests (`home-page.spec.ts`)

Tests home page content and layout:
- Hero banner with portrait image
- Hero headline text
- Button links (LinkedIn, GitHub)
- Two-column layout (story and skills)
- Skills preview section
- "View All Skills" button styling and navigation

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/home-page.spec.ts
```

### Skills Page Tests (`skills.spec.ts`)

Tests skills page display:
- Skills page loads with categorized skills
- Skills are properly spaced and readable
- Skill categories are displayed correctly

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/skills.spec.ts
```

### Projects Page Tests (`projects.spec.ts`)

Tests projects page:
- Projects page loads
- Project cards display correctly
- Project filtering and categorization

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/projects.spec.ts
```

### Translation Tests (`translation.spec.ts`)

Tests language switching:
- English/Spanish language switching
- Translation persistence across navigation
- Mobile and desktop language switchers
- All pages translate correctly

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/translation.spec.ts
```

### Theme Tests (`theme.spec.ts`)

Tests dark/light theme:
- Theme toggle functionality
- Theme persistence
- Theme switching on mobile and desktop

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/theme.spec.ts
```

### Responsive Tests (`responsive.spec.ts`)

Tests responsive design:
- Mobile layout (≤768px)
- Desktop layout (≥992px)
- Medium screen layout (769px-991px)
- Navigation adapts to screen size

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/responsive.spec.ts
```

### SPA Navigation Tests (`spa-navigation.spec.ts`)

Tests Single Page Application navigation:
- Content loads via SPA without full page reload
- Navigation between pages
- URL updates correctly
- Back button functionality

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/spa-navigation.spec.ts
```

## Common Test Patterns

### Waiting for Content to Load

Since the site uses SPA (Single Page Application) loading:

```typescript
// Wait for content to be loaded
await page.waitForFunction(() => {
  const c = document.querySelector('#content');
  return c?.getAttribute('data-content-loaded') === 'true' || !!c?.querySelector('#homeBanner');
}, { timeout: 15000 });
```

### Mobile vs Desktop Detection

```typescript
// Check if we're on mobile
const isMobile = await page.evaluate(() => window.innerWidth <= 768);

if (isMobile) {
  // Mobile-specific test logic
} else {
  // Desktop-specific test logic
}
```

### Language Setup

```typescript
// Set language to English before tests
await page.evaluate(() => {
  localStorage.setItem('siteLanguage', 'en');
  if (typeof window.TranslationManager !== 'undefined') {
    window.TranslationManager.switchLanguage('en');
  }
});
```

### Navigation

```typescript
// Navigate to a page via SPA
await page.locator('#navbar-links').getByRole('link', { name: 'Skills' }).click();

// Wait for content to load
await page.waitForFunction(() => {
  const c = document.querySelector('#content');
  return c?.getAttribute('data-content-loaded') === 'true';
}, { timeout: 15000 });
```

## Debugging Tests

### View Test Report

After running tests, view the HTML report:
```bash
npx playwright show-report
```

### Debug Mode

Run tests in debug mode to step through:
```bash
npm run test:debug
```

### UI Mode

Use Playwright UI for interactive debugging:
```bash
npm run test:ui
```

### Trace Viewer

When a test fails, traces are automatically generated. View them:
```bash
npx playwright show-trace test-results/path-to-trace.zip
```

### Screenshots and Videos

Failed tests automatically capture:
- Screenshots (in `test-results/`)
- Videos (if configured)
- Traces (on first retry)

## Troubleshooting

### Tests Fail with "Navigation timeout"

- Ensure the local server is running on port 4321
- Check that `http-server` is installed: `npm i`
- Try running the server manually: `npm run serve`

### Tests Fail on Mobile Emulation

- Mobile tests have longer timeouts (90 seconds)
- Some interactions may need more time on mobile
- Check `playwright.config.ts` for mobile-specific timeouts

### Translation Tests Fail

- Ensure TranslationManager is loaded
- Check that translation files exist in `html/js/translations/`
- Verify localStorage is accessible

### Theme Tests Fail

- Check that theme toggle buttons exist
- Verify theme is persisted in localStorage
- Ensure CSS variables are properly set

### Port Already in Use

If port 4321 is already in use:
```bash
# Find and kill the process
lsof -ti:4321 | xargs kill -9

# Or use a different port (update playwright.config.ts)
```

### Browser Installation Issues

If browsers fail to install:
```bash
# Reinstall browsers
npx playwright install --with-deps

# Install specific browser
npx playwright install chromium
npx playwright install firefox
```

## Best Practices

1. **Use data attributes**: Prefer `data-translate`, `data-url` over class names for selectors
2. **Wait for content**: Always wait for SPA content to load before assertions
3. **Mobile testing**: Test on both desktop and mobile emulation
4. **Language setup**: Set language before tests that depend on translations
5. **Isolation**: Each test should be independent and not rely on previous test state
6. **Timeouts**: Use appropriate timeouts for slow operations (15-30 seconds for SPA loads)

## CI/CD Integration

Tests run automatically in GitHub Actions. The workflow:
- Runs on pull requests
- Runs on pushes to main
- Runs on a daily schedule
- Uploads test artifacts (reports, traces, screenshots)
- Retains artifacts for 7 days

View test results in the Actions tab on GitHub.

Commit message:

Add skip test keywords support in commit messages
- Support [skip ci], [skip ui], [skip api], [skip perf], [skip ada], [skip load]
- Skip keywords work in commit messages and PR titles/bodies
- API server only starts when API tests are needed
- Added documentation in UI_TESTING.md

docs/UI_TESTING.md, after:

# UI Testing Guide

This repo uses Playwright for end-to-end UI testing of the portfolio site.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm i

# Install Playwright browsers
npx playwright install --with-deps

# Run all UI tests
npm test

# Run with UI mode (interactive)
npm run test:ui

# Run in headed mode (see browser)
npm run test:headed
```

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.x (LTS recommended)
- npm (comes with Node.js)
- Port `4321` available locally (for test server)

Verify Node.js version:
```bash
node -v  # should show v18.x.x
npm -v
```

## Running Tests

### Basic Commands

```bash
# Run all tests headless (default)
npm test

# Run with Playwright UI (interactive test runner)
npm run test:ui

# Run in headed mode (see browser windows)
npm run test:headed

# Debug mode (step through tests)
npm run test:debug

# Run only E2E tests (excludes API tests)
npm run test:e2e
```

### Running Specific Test Files

```bash
# Run a specific test file
npx playwright test tests/navbar.spec.ts

# Run tests matching a pattern
npx playwright test navbar

# Run tests in a specific browser
npx playwright test --project=chromium
npx playwright test --project=firefox
npx playwright test --project=chromium-iphone
```

### Running Tests in CI

Tests run automatically in GitHub Actions on:
- Pull requests
- Pushes to main
- Daily schedule (6:00 UTC)

The CI workflow:
1. Checks out code
2. Sets up Node.js 18
3. Installs dependencies
4. Installs Playwright browsers
5. Runs all tests
6. Uploads test artifacts (reports, traces, screenshots)

## Test Structure

Tests are located in the `tests/` directory:

- `navbar.spec.ts` - Navigation bar functionality
- `home-page.spec.ts` - Home page content and layout
- `home.spec.ts` - Home page navigation and interactions
- `skills.spec.ts` - Skills page display and categorization
- `projects.spec.ts` - Projects page and project cards
- `docs.spec.ts` - Documentation/Notes page navigation
- `tutorials.spec.ts` - Tutorials page and cards
- `translation.spec.ts` - Language switching (EN/ES)
- `theme.spec.ts` - Dark/light theme switching
- `responsive.spec.ts` - Responsive design across screen sizes
- `spa-navigation.spec.ts` - Single Page Application navigation

## Test Configuration

Configuration is in `playwright.config.ts`:

- **Base URL**: `http://localhost:4321`
- **Test timeout**: 60 seconds
- **Expect timeout**: 10 seconds
- **Web server**: Automatically starts `http-server` on port 4321
- **Browsers**: Chromium, Firefox, Chromium-iPhone (mobile emulation)
- **Trace**: Enabled on first retry for debugging

## Test Suites

### Navbar Tests (`navbar.spec.ts`)

Tests navigation bar functionality:
- Navbar visibility and expected links
- Docs dropdown menu behavior
- Mobile sidebar functionality
- Brand name navigation
- Language switcher and theme toggle

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/navbar.spec.ts
```

### Home Page Tests (`home-page.spec.ts`)

Tests home page content and layout:
- Hero banner with portrait image
- Hero headline text
- Button links (LinkedIn, GitHub)
- Two-column layout (story and skills)
- Skills preview section
- "View All Skills" button styling and navigation

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/home-page.spec.ts
```

### Skills Page Tests (`skills.spec.ts`)

Tests skills page display:
- Skills page loads with categorized skills
- Skills are properly spaced and readable
- Skill categories are displayed correctly

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/skills.spec.ts
```

### Projects Page Tests (`projects.spec.ts`)

Tests projects page:
- Projects page loads
- Project cards display correctly
- Project filtering and categorization

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/projects.spec.ts
```

### Translation Tests (`translation.spec.ts`)

Tests language switching:
- English/Spanish language switching
- Translation persistence across navigation
- Mobile and desktop language switchers
- All pages translate correctly

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/translation.spec.ts
```

### Theme Tests (`theme.spec.ts`)

Tests dark/light theme:
- Theme toggle functionality
- Theme persistence
- Theme switching on mobile and desktop

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/theme.spec.ts
```

### Responsive Tests (`responsive.spec.ts`)

Tests responsive design:
- Mobile layout (≤768px)
- Desktop layout (≥992px)
- Medium screen layout (769px-991px)
- Navigation adapts to screen size

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/responsive.spec.ts
```

### SPA Navigation Tests (`spa-navigation.spec.ts`)

Tests Single Page Application navigation:
- Content loads via SPA without full page reload
- Navigation between pages
- URL updates correctly
- Back button functionality

**Example:**
```bash
npx playwright test tests/spa-navigation.spec.ts
```

## Common Test Patterns

### Waiting for Content to Load

Since the site uses SPA (Single Page Application) loading:

```typescript
// Wait for content to be loaded
await page.waitForFunction(() => {
  const c = document.querySelector('#content');
  return c?.getAttribute('data-content-loaded') === 'true' || !!c?.querySelector('#homeBanner');
}, { timeout: 15000 });
```

### Mobile vs Desktop Detection

```typescript
// Check if we're on mobile
const isMobile = await page.evaluate(() => window.innerWidth <= 768);

if (isMobile) {
  // Mobile-specific test logic
} else {
  // Desktop-specific test logic
}
```

### Language Setup

```typescript
// Set language to English before tests
await page.evaluate(() => {
  localStorage.setItem('siteLanguage', 'en');
  if (typeof window.TranslationManager !== 'undefined') {
    window.TranslationManager.switchLanguage('en');
  }
});
```

### Navigation

```typescript
// Navigate to a page via SPA
await page.locator('#navbar-links').getByRole('link', { name: 'Skills' }).click();

// Wait for content to load
await page.waitForFunction(() => {
  const c = document.querySelector('#content');
  return c?.getAttribute('data-content-loaded') === 'true';
}, { timeout: 15000 });
```

## Debugging Tests

### View Test Report

After running tests, view the HTML report:
```bash
npx playwright show-report
```

### Debug Mode

Run tests in debug mode to step through:
```bash
npm run test:debug
```

### UI Mode

Use Playwright UI for interactive debugging:
```bash
npm run test:ui
```

### Trace Viewer

When a test fails, traces are automatically generated. View them:
```bash
npx playwright show-trace test-results/path-to-trace.zip
```

### Screenshots and Videos

Failed tests automatically capture:
- Screenshots (in `test-results/`)
- Videos (if configured)
- Traces (on first retry)

## Troubleshooting

### Tests Fail with "Navigation timeout"

- Ensure the local server is running on port 4321
- Check that `http-server` is installed: `npm i`
- Try running the server manually: `npm run serve`

### Tests Fail on Mobile Emulation

- Mobile tests have longer timeouts (90 seconds)
- Some interactions may need more time on mobile
- Check `playwright.config.ts` for mobile-specific timeouts

### Translation Tests Fail

- Ensure TranslationManager is loaded
- Check that translation files exist in `html/js/translations/`
- Verify localStorage is accessible

### Theme Tests Fail

- Check that theme toggle buttons exist
- Verify theme is persisted in localStorage
- Ensure CSS variables are properly set

### Port Already in Use

If port 4321 is already in use:
```bash
# Find and kill the process
lsof -ti:4321 | xargs kill -9

# Or use a different port (update playwright.config.ts)
```

### Browser Installation Issues

If browsers fail to install:
```bash
# Reinstall browsers
npx playwright install --with-deps

# Install specific browser
npx playwright install chromium
npx playwright install firefox
```

## Best Practices

1. **Use data attributes**: Prefer `data-translate`, `data-url` over class names for selectors
2. **Wait for content**: Always wait for SPA content to load before assertions
3. **Mobile testing**: Test on both desktop and mobile emulation
4. **Language setup**: Set language before tests that depend on translations
5. **Isolation**: Each test should be independent and not rely on previous test state
6. **Timeouts**: Use appropriate timeouts for slow operations (15-30 seconds for SPA loads)

## CI/CD Integration

Tests run automatically in GitHub Actions. The workflow:

### Skipping Tests in CI

You can skip tests by including special keywords in your commit messages or PR titles:

- `[skip ci]` - Skip all tests (UI and API)
- `[skip ui]` - Skip all UI tests (Chromium, Firefox, iPhone emulation)
- `[skip api]` - Skip all API tests
- `[skip perf]` - Skip all performance tests (reserved for future use)
- `[skip ada]` - Skip all accessibility tests (reserved for future use)
- `[skip load]` - Skip all load tests (reserved for future use)

**Examples:**
```
git commit -m "Update README [skip ci]"
git commit -m "Fix typo in docs [skip ui]"
git commit -m "Update API documentation [skip api]"
```

**Notes:**
- Keywords are case-insensitive
- Keywords can appear in commit messages or PR titles/bodies
- Multiple skip keywords can be used together (e.g., `[skip ui] [skip api]`)
- When `[skip ci]` is used, the entire test job is skipped
- When specific test types are skipped, only those tests are skipped (other tests still run)

The workflow:
- Runs on pull requests
- Runs on pushes to main
- Runs on a daily schedule
- Uploads test artifacts (reports, traces, screenshots)
- Retains artifacts for 7 days

View test results in the Actions tab on GitHub.
